---
title: Common knowledge
---

You may have heard people say that you do not have to cite your source when the information you include in your paper or blog is common knowledge(CK for short). But what is CK?

## What CK is

CK is knowledge that is known by everyone, is a piece of infomation shared by eveyone.

If is CK, it is not needed to be cited. You don't need to say: "According to xxx, Paris is the capital of France".

CK can be natural facts. For example, everybody knows the temperature in which water freezes or boils.

CK can also be imformation shared by a cultural or national group, such as the names of famous heroes or events in the nation’s history.

As long as it is something that eveybody knows, it is considered CK, and it can be about a broad range of subjects.

## Scoped

But everyone does not necessarily mean the whole world, CK can be knowledage shared only within a community, that is a certain group of people.

So it depends to say one piece of infomation is CK or not. You need to make sure who your audience is. For example, Moore's Law is common knowledage shared by everyone in computer industry, but may or may not known by the general public. So when talking to the public, it's better to give the source of the information.

Yes, everybody does not necessarily mean the whole world.

## What is not CK

However, there are a lot of different types of information that are not CK.

Data generated by study is not CK. If you get a result of lab experiments, then the result is not CK. A statement reporting that 24% of children under the age of 18 live in households headed by single mothers would need to be cited. This is information that would not be known to the average reader, who would want to know where the figure was obtained.

CK does not have to the truth. "The Moon orbits the Earth." Observation of the moon shows us that this happens. In addition, scientific findings give confirmation. At various periods in history, it was regarded as common knowledge that the Earth is flat and that the Sun orbits the Earth, although these theories were later found to be false.

And Common sense and General Knowledage is not CK. Look to Wikipedia pages for more info.

## Conclusion

To conclude, CK is knowledge that is known by everyone in the world or everyone within one community. When talking CK to a proper audience, it does not need to be cited.

Ref: 

- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Common_knowledge
- https://integrity.mit.edu/handbook/citing-your-sources/what-common-knowledge
